---
title: '1. Add a new action to the declarative agent'
layout: default
nav_order: 1
parent: 'Exercise 03: Build M365 Copilot plugin and include in declarative agent'
---

1. Return to the browser signed into **Copilot Studio**.  

1. In the left pane, select **Copilot** and then select **Copilot for Microsoft 365**. 

1. Under **Agents**, select **Project Tracker Assistant**. 

1. In the **Actions** section, select **+ Add action**. 

    {: .note }
    > From this section, you can access all the Power Platform connectors available in Copilot Studio to connect to a wide range of services. Many third-party connectors are built in as well.   
    > 
    > You also have the option to **Add an API for a custom connector** at the bottom, where you can provide the OpenAPI specification of your API to connect the declarative agent. Close this option if opened. 

 
1. In the search field, type **add a to-do** and select **Enter**. 

1. Select **Add a to-do (V3)** by **Microsoft To-Do (Business)**. The system will check the required permissions to connect. 

    {: .note }
    > This action will allow us to create to-do reminders based on the information and deadlines we receive from the declarative agent.   

    {: .warning }
    > Don’t select the connector by **Microsoft To-Do (Consumer)**. 

1. Once loaded, select **Next**. 

1. On the **Step 2 of 3: Review inputs and outputs** page, select the **Inputs** tab, and then select **Edit inputs** to review the settings. 

    {: .note }
    > This action requires a list for where the to-do item will be added.   
    > 
    > By default, the action uses **Dynamically fill with best option**, which allows the orchestrator engine to extract information from the prompt and automatically fill these parameters. 

 
1. Review the properties and then on the lower-left of the window, select **Back** to go back to the previous page. 

 
1. Select the **Outputs** tab to see the response this action will generate regarding the created to-do. 

 
1. Review the page and then select **Next**. 

 
1. On the **Step 3 of 3: Review and finish** page, review the page and then select **Finish** to add this action to the declarative agent. 
 
    {: .note }
    > This information will be used by Copilot to make various determinations, such as when to call the plugin, how to extract input parameters from the prompt, and how to generate the appropriate output. 


1. In the **Actions** section, you can now see the newly added connector. 
