---
title: '3. Add an OpenAPI plugin to the Teams Toolkit'
layout: default
nav_order: 3
parent: 'Exercise 03: Build M365 Copilot plugin and include in declarative agent'
---

### Task 03 - Add an OpenAPI plugin to the Teams Toolkit 

 
In this task, you’ll learn to add a plugin to a declarative agent using the pro-code approach in Visual Studio Code with Teams Toolkit. This approach is critical for extending a declarative agent’s capabilities beyond the default Microsoft 365 Copilot features. 

 
While plugins are not part of the core M365 Copilot experience, they are essential for enhancing declarative agents. These agents, customizable to perform specialized tasks, use plugins to interface with external systems, such as APIs. 

 
It’s important to note that recent updates to Teams Toolkit have changed how plugins are added. Previously, plugins could be created directly from the Toolkit menu. Now, plugins are added exclusively through declarative agents, offering a more structured and configurable development experience. 

 
Follow these steps and you’ll have successfully integrated a plugin into a declarative agent, enabling it to connect with external systems like ticketing platforms: 

 
   - Add an OpenAPI plugin to a declarative agent. 

   - Configure the plugin to interact with a sample API. 

   - Deploy and test the updated declarative agent to confirm functionality. 

 

1. Open Visual Studio Code. 

 
1. In Visual Studio Code, go to the **\appPackage\declarativeCopilot.json** file from the previous exercise. 

 
1. On the left, select **Teams Toolkit**. 

 
1. Under the **DEVELOPMENT** section, select **Add Plugin**. 

 
1. From the **Add API Plugin** dropdown list, select **Start with an OpenAPI description document**. 

 
1. Select **Enter OpenAPI Description Document Location** to provide a URL. 

1. Enter the following URL of the API endpoint's JSON file and select **Enter**.  

    ```
    https://ticketapi-net8.azurewebsites.net/api/swagger.json 
    ``` 

    {: .warning }
    > Ignore any messages. Try selecting **Enter** again until the connection is successful. 

1. Select the **GET** and **POST** options to allow Copilot to interact with GET and POST operations and then select **OK**. 

1. Select **manifest.json** from the dropdown list. 

1. Review the informational pop-up window and then select **Add** to finalize adding the plugin. 

    {: .note }
    > The ai-plugin_1.json file appears in the **appPackage**. 

1. Navigate to the \appPackage\ai-plugin_1.json file. This file contains information about the plugin. 

1. Modify the **description_for_human** field on line 5 with a description of the plugin by entering the following: 

    ```
    This plugin can be used to [manage IT tickets]. 
    ``` 

1. Review the file for details on how it supports retrieving tickets with a keyword and creating new tickets.  

    {: .note }
    > Check the Adaptive Card definition for how ticket information gets displayed. 

1. Scroll down to the **runtimes** section, which indicates that the plugin is implemented using the **OpenAPI** specification. 

    {: .note }
    > This specification is included in the project files so that Copilot can understand how the API works. You can find it in: **\appPackage\apiSpecificationFile\openapi_1.json**
